---
title: Disrupting the International Oriental Bat Trade
author: Joanna Coleman, MSc, PhD (she/her)
date: June 16, 2024
footnote: Joanna Coleman MSc, PHD attended the ____ Festival in 2013. She recently found herself published on the front of the New York Times. She wrote to us, excited about how SICSS helped her accomplish her research. 
image: assets/images/stories/2024-06-16.png
---

Dear all,
 
Good morning and hope this finds you well.
 
My colleagues and I recently published our study of the online trade in the batKerivoula picta to US-based consumers on Amazon, eBay and Etsy.
Although I had the idea for the project before attending SICSS, without this training, I would not have been able to imagine the full scope of what was possible or to oversee an immensely rewarding endeavour.
 
This project has resulted in a petition now before the US Fish & Wildlife Service to add this species to the US Endangered Species Act—if you want to support it, you can do so by writing to the USFWS (instructions here).
We secured a follow-up grant for an on-the-ground study of the trade in Vietnam (now being done) and will work with South and Southeast Asian parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora & Fauna (CITES) to add K. picta to the treaty at COP 2025.
Our work has been covered by National Geographic, the Verge, Newsweek and other media outlets—it even made the cover of the NYT this weekend (pdf attached).
And we have been interviewed by radio stations in Canada and the US (mp4 of my interview on CJAD800 Montreal).
 
While these various outcomes will likely benefit my tenure case and career, the greater benefit (hopefully) will be the complete shutdown of the online ornamental bat trade, which is frivolous, cruel and, at least in the case of K. picta, illegal and unsustainable.
Indeed, we are seeking funding to repeat our study in other consuming countries and for several other big projects to attack the ornamental bat trade from multiple angles.
 
So, I just wanted to express my deep gratitude for my incredible SICSS 2022 learning experience at Rutgers.
And to encourage you to keep offering this useful and inspiring training and to keep welcoming participants from “other” disciplines.
 
Sincerely,
 
Joanna
 
Joanna Coleman, MSc, PhD (she/her)
Assistant Professor
Department of Biology, Queens College at the City University of New York
www.urban-ecologist.com
 
Co-Chair of the Human Dimensions and Bat Trade Working Groups, IUCN SSC Bat Specialist Group | www.iucnbsg.org