2023/munich/apply.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: munich
---

# Apply

## Eligibility

Only a view applicants can participate in this years Summer Institute. However, there are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment. About 25 participants will be invited.

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists across all levels of technical experience. Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute, and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete SICSS boot camp. 

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) research and teaching in the area of computational social science 2) contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we attempt to account for an applicant’s career stage and previous educational opportunities.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents: \_\_\_\_\_

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by \_\_\_\_\_.** All application materials must be submitted through \_\_\_\_\_. Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by \_\_\_\_\_, and will ask participants to confirm their participation very soon thereafter.

Inquiries can be sent to \_\_\_\_\_.

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Munich, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Munich if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

Commit message:

update apply page for Munich

2023/munich/apply.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: munich
---

# Apply

## Eligibility

Appliactions for SICSS-Munich are open to graduate students (= master students), PhD candidates, Post-Docs, and Faculty. There are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment. About 25 participants will be invited.

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists across all levels of technical experience. Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute, and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete an online boot camp. 

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) research and teaching in the area of computational social science 2) contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we attempt to account for an applicant’s career stage and previous educational opportunities.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents: 

- Curriculum Vitae
- a research statement, explaining your motivation for participating in SICSS-Munich (max. 2 pages)
- a writing sample, for instance a seminar paper, working paper, or publication (max. 35 pages)

Please submit your applications using [this Google Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/10rdxMyNw8iuOLmnqQ0ODB-j6a-u-z2J26_oANmB8-as/).

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by March 3rd, 2023.** Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by the end of March 2023, and will ask participants to confirm their participation very soon thereafter.

Inquiries can be sent to sicss.munich@gmail.com.

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Munich, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Munich if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

#### In my application, can I submit a writing sample that is unrelated to Computational Social Science?

Absolutely. SICSS-Munich invites applications from social scienctists who are still unfamiliar with Computational Social Science.
