projects.md, before:

---
title: "Participant Projects"
subtitle: "Projects inspired by, started at, or done in collaboration with SICSS"
layout: page
---

### Publications

---

| Authors | Publication Title | Journal | DOI | SICSS Affiliation |
| ------- | ----------------- | ------- | --- | ----------------- |
| Goncalves, Marcelo S O; Langrock, Isabelle ; LaViolette, Jack; Spoon, Katie| Book bans in political context: Evidence from US schools | PNAS Nexus | DOI | Duke 2022 | 
| Almaatouq, Abdullah; Krafft, Peter; Dunham, Yarrow; Rand, David G; Pentland, Alex | Turkers of the World Unite: Multilevel In-Group Bias Among Crowdworkers on Amazon Mechanical Turk | Social Psychological and Personality Science | <https://doi.org/10.1177/1948550619837002> | Princeton 2017 |
| Jennie E. Brand, Jiahui Xu, Bernard Koch, and Pablo Geraldo | Uncovering Sociological Effect Heterogeneity Using Tree-Based Machine Learning | Sociological Methodology | <https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0081175021993503> | UCLA 2019 |
| Biswas, Arpita; Kolczynska, Marta ; Rantanen, Saana; Rozenshtein, Polina | The Role of In-Group Bias and Balanced Data: A Comparison of Human and Machine Recidivism Risk Predictions | Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies | <https://doi.org/10.1145/3378393.3402507> | Helsinki 2017 |
| Tiago Ventura; Kevin Munger; Katherine McCabe; Keng-Chi Chang | Connective Effervescence and Streaming Chat During Political Debates | Journal of Quantitative Description: Digital Media | <https://doi.org/10.51685/jqd.2021.001> | Princeton 2020 |
| Victoria Asbury-Kimmel; Keng-Chi Chang; Katherine T McCabe; Kevin Munger; Tiago Ventura | The Effect of Streaming Chat on Perceptions of Political Debates | Journal of Communication | <https://doi.org/10.1093/joc/jqab041> | Princeton 2020 |
| Li, Muyang; Luo, Zhifan | The 'Bad Women Drivers' Myth: The Overrepresentation of Female Drivers and Gender Bias in China’s Media | Information, Communication & Society | 10.1080/1369118X.2020.1713843 | RTI International 2019 |
| Than, Nga; Yoong, Diane; Rodriguez, Maria; Windel, Friederike | “Welcome to Gab”: Exploring Political Discourses in a Non-Moderated Social Media Platform | Interdisciplinary Digital Engagement in Arts & Humanities (IDEAH) | <https://doi.org/10.21428/f1f23564.0e45f983> | Hunter College 2019 | 
| Rigobon, Daniel E; Jahani, Eaman; Suhara, Yoshihiko; AlGhoneim, Khaled; Alghunaim, Abdulaziz; Pentland, Alex “Sandy”; Almaatouq, Abdullah | Winning Models for Grade Point Average, Grit, and Layoff in the Fragile Families Challenge | Socius | <https://doi.org/10.1177/2378023118820418> | Princeton 2017 |
| Filippova, Anna ; Gilroy, Connor; Kashyap,  Ridhi; Kirchner, Antje; Morgan, Allison C.; Polimis, Kivan; Usmani, Adaner; Wang Tong | Humans in the Loop: Incorporating Expert and Crowd-Sourced Knowledge for Predictions Using Survey Data | Socius | <https://doi.org/10.1177/2378023118820157> | Princeton 2017, Oxford 2019 and 2021 |
| Gilroy, Connor; Kashyap, Ridhi | Digital Traces of Sexualities: Understanding the Salience of Sexual Identity through Disclosure on Social Media | Socius | <https://doi.org/10.1177/23780231211029499> | Princeton 2017, Oxford 2019 and 2021 |
| Liane Rothenberger; Muhammad Qasim Pasta; Daniel Mayerhoffer | Mapping and impact assessment of phenomenon-oriented research fields: The example of migration research | Quantitative Science Studies | <https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_a_00163> | Bamberg 2019 | 
| Asbury-Kimmel, Victoria;  Chang, Keng-Chi; McCabe, Katherine T.; Munger, Kevin; Ventura,Tiago | The Effect of Streaming Chat on Perceptions of Political Debates | Journal of Communication | <https://doi.org/10.1093/joc/jqab041> | Princeton 2019 |
| Ventura, Tiago; Munger, Kevin; McCabe, Katherine; Chang, Keng-Chi | Connective Effervescence and Streaming Chat During Political Debates | Journal of Quantitative Description: Digital Media | <https://doi.org/10.51685/jqd.2021.001> | Princeton 2019 |
| Than, Nga; Yoong, Diane;  Rodriguez, Maria Y.;  Windel, Friederike M. | “Welcome to Gab”: Exploring Political Discourses in a Non-Moderated Social Media Platform | IDEAH | <https://doi.org/10.21428/f1f23564.0e45f983> | Hunter College 2019 |
| Joshua Becker; Ethan Porter; Damon Centola | "The Wisdom of Partisan Crowds" | Proceedings of the National Academies of Sciences | <https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1817195116> | Princeton 2017 |
| Barnett, Carolyn; Fitzgerald, Mike; Krumbholz, Katie; Lamba, Manika | Gender in the Journals: A New Dataset | PS: Political Science and Politics | <https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/UVWRTV> | Rutgers 2020 |
| Barrie, Christopher; Frey, Arun | Faces in the Crowd | PLOS ONE | <https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0259972> | Oxford 2019 |
| Bohr, Jeremiah | Reporting on Climate Change: A Computational Analysis of U.S.  Newspapers and Sources of Bias, 1997-2017.| Global Environmental Change | <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2020.102038> | Chicago 2018 |
| Guber, Deborah Lynn; Bohr, Jeremiah; Dunlap, Riley E. | ‘Time to Wake Up’: Climate change advocacy in a polarized Congress, 1996-2015 | Environmental Politics | <https://doi.org/10.1080/09644016.2020.1786333> | Chicago 2018 |
| Larimore, Savannah; Kennedy, Ian; Haskett, Breon; Arseniev-Koehler; Alina | "Reconsidering Annotator Disagreement about Racist Language: Noise or Signal?" | Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Natural Language Processing for Social Media | <https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.socialnlp-1.7> | Seattle 2018 |
| Abdullah Almaatouq; M. Amin Rahimian; Jason W. Burton;  Abdulla Alhajri | When Social Influence Promotes the Wisdom of Crowds | Available at SSRN: 3633309 | <https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3633309> | Princeton 2019 |
| 

---

### Software

---


| Creators | Project Name | Link | SICSS Affiliation |
| -------- | ------------ | ---- | ----------------- |
| Anfan Chen, Yong hu | Digital Media Data Initiative | <http://saas.socialsensor.top/#/login> | Beijing 2021 |
| | | | |
| Bellows, Laura | -nicknamez- file | <https://www.laura-bellows.com/software> | Rutgers 2021 |
| | | | |
| Almaatouq, Abdullah; Paton, Nicolas | Empirica | <https://empirica.ly/> | Princeton 2017 |
| | | | |
| Barrie, Christopher | academictwitteR | <https://github.com/cjbarrie/academictwitteR> | Oxford 2019 |

Commit message:

Added Hastings & Pesando (2021) to projects page; fixed typos

projects.md, after:

---
title: "Participant Projects"
subtitle: "Projects inspired by, started at, or done in collaboration with SICSS"
layout: page
---

### Publications

---

| Authors | Publication Title | Journal | DOI | SICSS Affiliation |
| ------- | ----------------- | ------- | --- | ----------------- |
| Hastings, Orestes P.; Pesando, Luca Maria | What's a parent to do? Measuring cultural logics of parenting with computational text analysis | Social Science Research | <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssresearch.2024.103074> | Princeton 2021 |
| Goncalves, Marcelo S O; Langrock, Isabelle; LaViolette, Jack; Spoon, Katie | Book bans in political context: Evidence from US schools | PNAS Nexus | <https://doi.org/10.1093/pnasnexus/pgae197> | Duke 2022 | 
| Almaatouq, Abdullah; Krafft, Peter; Dunham, Yarrow; Rand, David G; Pentland, Alex | Turkers of the World Unite: Multilevel In-Group Bias Among Crowdworkers on Amazon Mechanical Turk | Social Psychological and Personality Science | <https://doi.org/10.1177/1948550619837002> | Princeton 2017 |
| Jennie E. Brand, Jiahui Xu, Bernard Koch, and Pablo Geraldo | Uncovering Sociological Effect Heterogeneity Using Tree-Based Machine Learning | Sociological Methodology | <https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0081175021993503> | UCLA 2019 |
| Biswas, Arpita; Kolczynska, Marta ; Rantanen, Saana; Rozenshtein, Polina | The Role of In-Group Bias and Balanced Data: A Comparison of Human and Machine Recidivism Risk Predictions | Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies | <https://doi.org/10.1145/3378393.3402507> | Helsinki 2017 |
| Tiago Ventura; Kevin Munger; Katherine McCabe; Keng-Chi Chang | Connective Effervescence and Streaming Chat During Political Debates | Journal of Quantitative Description: Digital Media | <https://doi.org/10.51685/jqd.2021.001> | Princeton 2020 |
| Victoria Asbury-Kimmel; Keng-Chi Chang; Katherine T McCabe; Kevin Munger; Tiago Ventura | The Effect of Streaming Chat on Perceptions of Political Debates | Journal of Communication | <https://doi.org/10.1093/joc/jqab041> | Princeton 2020 |
| Li, Muyang; Luo, Zhifan | The 'Bad Women Drivers' Myth: The Overrepresentation of Female Drivers and Gender Bias in China’s Media | Information, Communication & Society | <https://doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2020.1713843> | RTI International 2019 |
| Than, Nga; Yoong, Diane; Rodriguez, Maria; Windel, Friederike | “Welcome to Gab”: Exploring Political Discourses in a Non-Moderated Social Media Platform | Interdisciplinary Digital Engagement in Arts & Humanities (IDEAH) | <https://doi.org/10.21428/f1f23564.0e45f983> | Hunter College 2019 | 
| Rigobon, Daniel E; Jahani, Eaman; Suhara, Yoshihiko; AlGhoneim, Khaled; Alghunaim, Abdulaziz; Pentland, Alex “Sandy”; Almaatouq, Abdullah | Winning Models for Grade Point Average, Grit, and Layoff in the Fragile Families Challenge | Socius | <https://doi.org/10.1177/2378023118820418> | Princeton 2017 |
| Filippova, Anna ; Gilroy, Connor; Kashyap,  Ridhi; Kirchner, Antje; Morgan, Allison C.; Polimis, Kivan; Usmani, Adaner; Wang Tong | Humans in the Loop: Incorporating Expert and Crowd-Sourced Knowledge for Predictions Using Survey Data | Socius | <https://doi.org/10.1177/2378023118820157> | Princeton 2017, Oxford 2019 and 2021 |
| Gilroy, Connor; Kashyap, Ridhi | Digital Traces of Sexualities: Understanding the Salience of Sexual Identity through Disclosure on Social Media | Socius | <https://doi.org/10.1177/23780231211029499> | Princeton 2017, Oxford 2019 and 2021 |
| Liane Rothenberger; Muhammad Qasim Pasta; Daniel Mayerhoffer | Mapping and impact assessment of phenomenon-oriented research fields: The example of migration research | Quantitative Science Studies | <https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_a_00163> | Bamberg 2019 | 
| Asbury-Kimmel, Victoria;  Chang, Keng-Chi; McCabe, Katherine T.; Munger, Kevin; Ventura,Tiago | The Effect of Streaming Chat on Perceptions of Political Debates | Journal of Communication | <https://doi.org/10.1093/joc/jqab041> | Princeton 2019 |
| Ventura, Tiago; Munger, Kevin; McCabe, Katherine; Chang, Keng-Chi | Connective Effervescence and Streaming Chat During Political Debates | Journal of Quantitative Description: Digital Media | <https://doi.org/10.51685/jqd.2021.001> | Princeton 2019 |
| Than, Nga; Yoong, Diane;  Rodriguez, Maria Y.;  Windel, Friederike M. | “Welcome to Gab”: Exploring Political Discourses in a Non-Moderated Social Media Platform | IDEAH | <https://doi.org/10.21428/f1f23564.0e45f983> | Hunter College 2019 |
| Joshua Becker; Ethan Porter; Damon Centola | "The Wisdom of Partisan Crowds" | Proceedings of the National Academies of Sciences | <https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1817195116> | Princeton 2017 |
| Barnett, Carolyn; Fitzgerald, Mike; Krumbholz, Katie; Lamba, Manika | Gender in the Journals: A New Dataset | PS: Political Science and Politics | <https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/UVWRTV> | Rutgers 2020 |
| Barrie, Christopher; Frey, Arun | Faces in the Crowd | PLOS ONE | <https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0259972> | Oxford 2019 |
| Bohr, Jeremiah | Reporting on Climate Change: A Computational Analysis of U.S.  Newspapers and Sources of Bias, 1997-2017.| Global Environmental Change | <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2020.102038> | Chicago 2018 |
| Guber, Deborah Lynn; Bohr, Jeremiah; Dunlap, Riley E. | ‘Time to Wake Up’: Climate change advocacy in a polarized Congress, 1996-2015 | Environmental Politics | <https://doi.org/10.1080/09644016.2020.1786333> | Chicago 2018 |
| Larimore, Savannah; Kennedy, Ian; Haskett, Breon; Arseniev-Koehler; Alina | "Reconsidering Annotator Disagreement about Racist Language: Noise or Signal?" | Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Natural Language Processing for Social Media | <https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.socialnlp-1.7> | Seattle 2018 |
| Abdullah Almaatouq; M. Amin Rahimian; Jason W. Burton;  Abdulla Alhajri | When Social Influence Promotes the Wisdom of Crowds | Available at SSRN: 3633309 | <https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3633309> | Princeton 2019 |
| 

---

### Software

---


| Creators | Project Name | Link | SICSS Affiliation |
| -------- | ------------ | ---- | ----------------- |
| Anfan Chen, Yong hu | Digital Media Data Initiative | <http://saas.socialsensor.top/#/login> | Beijing 2021 |
| | | | |
| Bellows, Laura | -nicknamez- file | <https://www.laura-bellows.com/software> | Rutgers 2021 |
| | | | |
| Almaatouq, Abdullah; Paton, Nicolas | Empirica | <https://empirica.ly/> | Princeton 2017 |
| | | | |
| Barrie, Christopher | academictwitteR | <https://github.com/cjbarrie/academictwitteR> | Oxford 2019 |
