---
layout: year_home
pre_arrival: _pre_arrival.md
live_stream: _live_stream.md
---
<br>
From the evening of Sunday, June 17 to the morning of Saturday, June 30, 2018, the Russell Sage Foundation and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science, to be held at Duke University. The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and beginning faculty interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).  The co-organizers and principal faculty of the Summer Institute are Christopher Bail and Matthew Salganik.  There will also be seven partner locations run by alumni of the 2017 Summer Institute, which will be hosted at the following universities: Hunter College, New York University, [Northwestern University](https://compsocialscience.github.io/summer-institute/2018/chicago/), [Univeristy of Cape Town](https://compsocialscience.github.io/summer-institute/2018/capetown/), [University of Colorado](https://compsocialscience.github.io/summer-institute/2018/boulder), [University of Helsinki](https://compsocialscience.github.io/summer-institute/2018/helsinki), and University of Washington.

The instructional program will involve lectures, group problem sets, and participant-led research projects. There will also be outside speakers who conduct computational social science research in academia, industry, and government. Topics covered include text as data, website scraping, digital field experiments, non-probability sampling, mass collaboration, and ethics. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organizers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.

Participation is restricted to Ph.D. students, postdoctoral researchers, and untenured faculty within 7 years of their Ph.D. Most participant costs during the workshop, including housing and most meals, will be covered, and most travel expenses will be reimbursed up to a set cap. About thirty participants will be invited. Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute, and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete a set of online learning modules on the R programming language. Students doing this preparatory work will be supported by a teaching assistant who will hold online office hours before the Institute.

[Application materials](https://compsocialscience.github.io/summer-institute/2018/apply) were due Monday, February 19, 2018.  We are no longer accepting applications.
