2024/amsterdam/apply.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: amsterdam
---

# Apply

## Eligibility

We invite applications from graduate students, early-career researchers and non-academic researchers. There are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment. About 20 participants will be invited.

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists across different levels of technical experience. To ensure working proficiency, participants with less experience with social science research or data science methods will be expected to complete additional readings and online learning modules in advance of the Institute. <!-- , and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete a set of online learning modules on the R programming language. <\!-- Students doing this preparatory work will be supported by a teaching assistant who will hold online office hours during the two months before the Institute. -\-> -->

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) research and teaching experience in the area of computational social science 2) contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we attempt to account for an applicant’s career stage and previous educational opportunities.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents: 

- A short CV (1 page)
- 250 word paragraph expressing motivation and research interest (to be inserted in the application form)

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by TBD.** All application materials must be submitted through **the TBD application form**. We will notify applicants by **TBD**, and will ask participants to confirm their participation very soon thereafter.

Inquiries can be sent to **TBD**

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Odissei, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Amsterdam if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

<!-- #### Will travel or housing be covered?  -->
<!-- Perhaps.  -->

Commit message:

amsterdam 2024: add email, minor changes

2024/amsterdam/apply.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: amsterdam
---

# Apply

## Eligibility

We invite applications from graduate students, early-career researchers and non-academic researchers. There are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment. About 20 participants will be invited.

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists across different levels of technical experience. To ensure working proficiency, participants with less experience with social science research or data science methods will be expected to complete additional readings and online learning modules in advance of the Institute. <!-- , and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete a set of online learning modules on the R programming language. <\!-- Students doing this preparatory work will be supported by a teaching assistant who will hold online office hours during the two months before the Institute. -\-> -->

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) research and teaching experience in the area of computational social science 2) contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we take into account applicant career stage and previous educational opportunities.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents: 

- A short CV (1 page)
- 400 words text expressing motivation and research interest (to be inserted in the application form)

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by March 15.** All application materials must be submitted through [**the application form**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ). Soon after the application deadline, we will notify applicants and ask participants to confirm their participation.

Inquiries can be sent to sicss.amsterdam.2024@gmail.com

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Odissei, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Amsterdam if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

<!-- #### Will travel or housing be covered?  -->
<!-- Perhaps.  -->
