2024/amsterdam/pre_arrival.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: amsterdam
---

# Pre-arrival

The Summer Institute will bring together people from many fields and backgrounds. In order to use our time together efficiently, there are a number of things that you should do before participating in SICSS-Amsterdam 2024.

- Complete the pre-read
- Complete coding bootcamp (if needed)
- Watch lecture videos
- Prepare your computing environment

TAs will host office hours through Slack to support you as you work through these pre-arrival materials.

## Reading

In order to prepare for SICSS-Amsterdam 2024, you should read Matt Salganik’s book, *[Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age](http://www.bitbybitbook.com)* ([Read online](https://www.bitbybitbook.com/en/1st-ed/preface/) or purchase from [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Bit-Social-Research-Digital-Age/dp/0691158649), [Barnes & Noble](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/bit-by-bit-matthew-salganik/1125483924), [IndieBound](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780691158648), or [Princeton University Press](https://press.princeton.edu/titles/11057.html)). Parts of this book, which is a broad introduction to computational social science, will be review for most of you, but if we all read this book ahead of time, then we can use our time together for more advanced topics.

## Coding Boot Camp

The [SICSS Boot Camp](https://sicss.io/boot_camp) is an online training program created by Chris Bail to provide you with beginner level skills in coding so that you can follow the more advanced curriculum we teach at SICSS. The videos and materials are designed for complete beginners and are best viewed as a sequence since each video builds upon content introduced in previous tutorials. If you are already familiar with the topics in these videos, you do not need to complete them.

If you would like more practice after completing the Boot Camp videos, some other materials that we can recommend are:
- [RStudio Primers](https://rstudio.cloud/learn/primers), which can be supplemented by the open access book _[R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/)_ by Garrett Grolemund and Hadley Wickham
- [R for Social Science](https://datacarpentry.org/r-socialsci/), Data Carpentry.  
- [Introduction to R for Social Scientists](https://clanfear.github.io/CSSS508/), Taught by Charles Lanfear at University of Washington. This course includes videos of lectures, slides, and assignments.
- [Learn R](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-r), Code Academy.

Please note that the majority of the coding work presented at SICSS-Amsterdam 2024 will employ **R (will it?)**. You are welcome to employ a language of your choice, such as Python, Julia, or other languages that are commonly used by computational social scientists.  However, we cannot provide much support for those languages.

<!-- ## Lecture videos -->

<!-- SICSS-Amsterdam 2024 will be using a [flipped classroom model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flipped_classroom).  Therefore, you should watch [videos of lectures](https://sicss.io/curriculum) before our meetings, and then we will use our time together for discussion and group activities. -->

## Computing environment

### R

Some of the activities will require coding, and we will support R. You are welcome to use other languages, but we cannot guarantee that we can support them. Before SICSS you should install a modern, stable-release version of [R](https://www.r-project.org/) and [RStudio](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).


<!-- ### Slack -->

<!-- Before participating at SICSS-Amsterdam 2024, you should have an account in the SICSS 2024 Slack workspace.  If you have not used Slack before, you should review these [getting started](https://slack.com/help/categories/360000049043-Getting-started) materials.  Slack can be hard to use at first, but we've found that it is the best way to enable everyone to collaborate. -->

<!-- ### GitHub -->

<!-- Many participants at SICSS use GitHub to collaborate. If you do not yet have one, you should [create a GitHub account](https://github.com/join). If you are a student, we recommend that you apply for a [GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack). -->

<!-- ## Office hours -->

<!-- The SICSS-Princeton [TAs](https://sicss.io/2021/princeton/people#teaching_assistants) will host weekly office hours in the SICSS 2021 Slack. You can find information about the office hours in the SICSS 2021 Slack channel #pre-office-hours. If you are not able to attend during the regularly scheduled office hours or have any questions about office hours, please contact one of the [TAs](https://sicss.io/2021/princeton/people#teaching_assistants). -->

Commit message:

amsterdam2024: both python and R, add python bootcamp/IDEs

2024/amsterdam/pre_arrival.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: amsterdam
---

# Pre-arrival

The Summer Institute will bring together people from many fields and backgrounds. In order to use our time together efficiently, there are a number of things that you should do before participating in SICSS-Amsterdam 2024.

- Complete the pre-read
- Prepare your computing environment
- Complete coding bootcamps (if needed)


TAs will host office hours through Slack to support you as you work through these pre-arrival materials.

## Reading

In order to prepare for SICSS-Amsterdam 2024, you should read Matt Salganik’s book, *[Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age](http://www.bitbybitbook.com)* ([Read online](https://www.bitbybitbook.com/en/1st-ed/preface/) or purchase from [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Bit-Social-Research-Digital-Age/dp/0691158649), [Barnes & Noble](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/bit-by-bit-matthew-salganik/1125483924), [IndieBound](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780691158648), or [Princeton University Press](https://press.princeton.edu/titles/11057.html)). Parts of this book, which is a broad introduction to computational social science, will be review for most of you, but if we all read this book ahead of time, then we can use our time together for more advanced topics.

## Computing environment

Please note that the coding work presented at SICSS-Amsterdam 2024 will employ a mix of R and Python. You are welcome to employ a language of your choice for each activity (such as Python for R content, R for Python content, or even completely different languages used by computational social scientists such as Julia). However, the support we can provide in these cases is limited. 

Before SICSS you should install a modern, stable-release version of [R](https://www.r-project.org/) and [RStudio](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/) as well as [Python](https://www.python.org/). You should be familiar with [Jupyter Notebooks](https://jupyter.org/), but you may also use other IDEs such as [Rstudio](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/), [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [Spyder](https://www.spyder-ide.org/). 

Please make sure you have sufficient knowledge of both R and Python before the Summer Institute; 

## SICCS R Boot Camp

The [SICSS Boot Camp](https://sicss.io/boot_camp) is an online training program created by Chris Bail to provide you with beginner level skills in coding so that you can follow the more advanced curriculum we teach at SICSS. The videos and materials are designed for complete beginners and are best viewed as a sequence since each video builds upon content introduced in previous tutorials. If you are already familiar with the topics in these videos, you do not need to complete them.

If you would like more practice after completing the Boot Camp videos, some other materials that we can recommend are:
- [RStudio Primers](https://rstudio.cloud/learn/primers), which can be supplemented by the open access book _[R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/)_ by Garrett Grolemund and Hadley Wickham
- [R for Social Science](https://datacarpentry.org/r-socialsci/), Data Carpentry.  
- [Introduction to R for Social Scientists](https://clanfear.github.io/CSSS508/), Taught by Charles Lanfear at University of Washington. This course includes videos of lectures, slides, and assignments.
- [Learn R](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-r), Code Academy.



## Python Boot Camp 
<!-- collaboration? -->

The Odissei SICSS team in Rotterdam is organizing a Python boot camp (more info to follow soon) with the goal to provide a sufficient level of Python to follow the curriculum of the Summer Institute. We may ask you to follow this bootcamp to prepare for the Summer Institute. 

<!-- can follow this bootcamp to  -->

<!-- The bootcamp will take place online from **X** to **Y**.  -->




<!-- ## Lecture videos -->

<!-- SICSS-Amsterdam 2024 will be using a [flipped classroom model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flipped_classroom).  Therefore, you should watch [videos of lectures](https://sicss.io/curriculum) before our meetings, and then we will use our time together for discussion and group activities. -->

<!-- ## Computing environment -->

<!-- ### R and Python -->

<!-- Some of the activities will require coding in R and Python. You are welcome to use other languages, but we cannot guarantee that we can support them. Before SICSS you should install a modern, stable-release version of [R](https://www.r-project.org/) and [RStudio](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/) as well as [Python](https://www.python.org/) -->



<!-- ### Slack -->

<!-- Before participating at SICSS-Amsterdam 2024, you should have an account in the SICSS 2024 Slack workspace.  If you have not used Slack before, you should review these [getting started](https://slack.com/help/categories/360000049043-Getting-started) materials.  Slack can be hard to use at first, but we've found that it is the best way to enable everyone to collaborate. -->

<!-- ### GitHub -->

<!-- Many participants at SICSS use GitHub to collaborate. If you do not yet have one, you should [create a GitHub account](https://github.com/join). If you are a student, we recommend that you apply for a [GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack). -->

<!-- ## Office hours -->

<!-- The SICSS-Princeton [TAs](https://sicss.io/2021/princeton/people#teaching_assistants) will host weekly office hours in the SICSS 2021 Slack. You can find information about the office hours in the SICSS 2021 Slack channel #pre-office-hours. If you are not able to attend during the regularly scheduled office hours or have any questions about office hours, please contact one of the [TAs](https://sicss.io/2021/princeton/people#teaching_assistants). -->
