2023/accra/apply.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: accra
---

# Apply

Participation is open to master’s and PhD students, postdoctoral researchers, untenured faculty within five years of their PhD. There are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or employment, but we will prioritise applicants from African countries. There is no registration fee for participating in SICSS-Accra, and most of the costs will be covered. The language of instruction will be English.

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds, fields of study, and countries within Africa. We strongly encourage women and other minority groups to apply. About 20 participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend, participate, and engage in the entire program.

Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute. Participants with less coding experience will be expected to complete a set of online learning modules on the R programming language. Students doing this preparatory work will be supported by a teaching assistant who will hold online office hours two months before the Institute.

Applications will be evaluated based on: 
-	Applicant’s professional experience. Preference will be given to postgraduate students, researchers/academics within five years of their PhD, junior officers in statistical offices, government ministries, and agencies.
-	Applicants experience with coding or the potential to be proficient before the Institute
-	Motivation and ambition to make a personal contribution to computational social science
-	Research experience, particularly at the postgraduate level or a demonstrated ability to build the capacity of others.
-	Potential to fully participate and engage in the entire program


## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents:

-	A curriculum vitae (max 4pages).
-	A motivation letter (max two pages) describing why do you wish to attend SICSS-Accra, your current research interests, future plans and how these intersect with the goals of this partner location.
-	A supporting letter from a supervisor/head of department/line manager/mentor that can attest to applicant's competence/potential and availability.

We will formally start receiving applications from 27 January 2023 until **17 March 2023**. In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted online via <a href="https://forms.gle/QUVcagQyFHucGoMD6" target="_blank">https://forms.gle/QUVcagQyFHucGoMD6</a>. Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by **10 April 2023** and ask participants to confirm their participation soon after.

Inquiries can be sent to sicss@rips-ug.edu.gh.

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Accra, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Accra if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

#### I have limited coding experience. Should I still apply?

Yes, provided that you can demonstrate that you would have become proficient with coding before the Institute. Participants do not have to be proficient with coding during application but must become familiar with coding before attending the summer institute in June.

Commit message:

FAQs updated to include funding, coding etc

2023/accra/apply.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: accra
---

# Apply

Participation is open to master’s and PhD students, postdoctoral researchers, untenured faculty within five years of their PhD. There are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or employment, but we will prioritise applicants from African countries. There is no registration fee for participating in SICSS-Accra, and most of the costs will be covered. The language of instruction will be English.

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds, fields of study, and countries within Africa. We strongly encourage women and other minority groups to apply. About 20 participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend, participate, and engage in the entire program.

Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute. Participants with less coding experience will be expected to complete a set of online learning modules on the R programming language. Students doing this preparatory work will be supported by a teaching assistant who will hold online office hours two months before the Institute.

Applications will be evaluated based on: 
-	Applicant’s professional and research experience. Preference will be given to postgraduate students and researchers/academics within five years of their PhD.
-	Applicant's experience with coding or the potential to be proficient before the summer institute.
-	Motivation and ambition to make a personal contribution to computational social science.
-	Potential to fully participate and engage in the entire program.


## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents:

-	A curriculum vitae (max 4pages).
-	A motivation letter (max two pages) describing why do you wish to attend SICSS-Accra, your current research interests, future plans and how these intersect with the goals of this partner location.
-	A supporting letter from a supervisor/head of department/line manager/mentor that can attest to applicant's competence/potential and availability.

We will formally start receiving applications from 27 January 2023 until **17 March 2023**. In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted online via <a href="https://forms.gle/QUVcagQyFHucGoMD6" target="_blank">https://forms.gle/QUVcagQyFHucGoMD6</a>. Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by **10 April 2023** and ask participants to confirm their participation soon after.

Inquiries can be sent to <a href="mailto:sicss@rips-ug.edu.gh" target="_blank">sicss@rips-ug.edu.gh</a>


## Application Frequently Asked Questions

### Who can apply?

The summer institute is targeted at doctoral students, post-docs, and early career researchers interested in applying computational methods to solve pressing challenges on the African continent. Given the limited amount of funding available, we will only select excellent candidates with the potential to make the most out of the programme and candidates who have the potential to advance the field of computational social science on the African continent.

### What is the level of the summer institute?

SICSS-Accra is planned to be an entry-level programme in computational social science. We will lay a solid foundation for computational social science during the summer institute through several activities such as invited lectures, research happy hour, tutorials and participant-led group research projects. You can read our experience organizing SICSS-Covenant 2022 here: <a href="https://sicss.io/2022/post-mortem#covenant-university" target="_blank">https://sicss.io/2022/post-mortem#covenant-university</a>


### I have limited coding experience. Should I still apply?

Some previous coding experience is highly recommended to make the most out of the summer institute. However, this should not discourage you from applying as we aim to enrol all accepted participants with limited coding experience in our coding bootcamp. During the bootcamp, we will introduce you to R-programming and support you in enriching your programming skills before the summer institute.

### How much does the summer institute cost?

There is no registration cost for participating in the summer institute. Furthermore, thanks to our generous sponsor, the National Science Foundation, we will be able to cover accommodation and meals for all accepted participants. We also have limited scholarships to cover round-trip airfare for participants from other African countries.

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Accra, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Accra if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.
