2023/singapore/index.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: singapore
main: true
image: /assets/images/singapore.jpg
---

From June 19 to June 26, 2023, the [Centre for Trusted Internet & Community](https://ctic.nus.edu.sg/) will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science. The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and beginning faculty interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).

The instructional program will involve lectures, group problem sets, and participant-led research projects. There will also be outside speakers who conduct computational social science research in a variety of settings, such as academia, industry, and government. Topics covered include text as data, website scraping, digital field experiments, machine learning, and ethics. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organizers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.

Participation is restricted to **graduate students (including masters students, preferably those with a prominent research component in their degree), postdoctoral researchers, untenured faculty within 7 years of their Ph.D, and researchers working in NGOs or government agencies.** We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study who have a strong interest in computational social science, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in the field. About 20 participants will be invited. Participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire one-week program.

[Application materials](./apply) are due on ~~March 6~~ March 13, 2023.

Commit message:

add TA for SICSS-Singapore

2023/singapore/index.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: singapore
main: true
image: /assets/images/singapore.jpg
---

From June 19 to June 26, 2023, the [Centre for Trusted Internet & Community](https://ctic.nus.edu.sg/) and the [Faculty of Arts & Social Sciences](https://fass.nus.edu.sg/) will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science, to be held at the National University of Singapore (NUS). The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and beginning faculty interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).

The instructional program will involve lectures, group problem sets, and participant-led research projects. There will also be outside speakers who conduct computational social science research in a variety of settings, such as academia, industry, and government. Topics covered include text as data, website scraping, digital field experiments, machine learning, and ethics. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organizers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.

Participation is restricted to **graduate students (including masters students, preferably those with a prominent research component in their degree), postdoctoral researchers, untenured faculty within 7 years of their Ph.D, and researchers working in NGOs or government agencies.** We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study who have a strong interest in computational social science, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in the field. About 20 participants will be invited. Participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire one-week program.

[Application materials](./apply) are due on ~~March 6~~ March 13, 2023.
