2025/cmu/apply.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: cmu
---

[//]: # (Update the following info to match your location!)

# Apply

**This page is under construction. Check back soon for more up-to-date info!**

## Eligibility

We invite applicants from advanced Ph.D. students students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty within 7 years of their Ph.D., who are able to attend the program in Pittsburgh, PA. We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, particularly ... . About ... participants will be invited. However, there are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment. 

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists across all levels of technical experience. Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute, and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete SICSS boot camp.

We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) research and teaching in the area of computational social science 2) contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we attempt to account for an applicant’s career stage and previous educational opportunities.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents: 1) a curriculum vitae, 2) a statement (maximum two pages double-spaced) describing: 

- Your current research
- Why you want to participate in SICSS-CMU
- How participation will aid your future research
- Your experience and/or interest in collaborative research. Carrying out a collaborative research project is a core component of SICSS-CMU.
- A possible topic, method, or question you would like to focus on for a collaborative project

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by {app due date not yet determined}.** All application materials must be submitted through this [Google Form](https://www.google.com) (form for this site not yet created). Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by {decision date not yet determined}, and will ask participants to confirm their participation very soon thereafter.

Inquiries can be sent to [site email not set up](email@goes.here).

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-CMU, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-CMU if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

Unfortunately, no. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

Commit message:

update SICSS-cmu application materials

2025/cmu/apply.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: cmu
---

[//]: # (Update the following info to match your location!)

# Apply

## Eligibility

SICSS-CMU is designed and intended for graduate students (including masters students), postdoctoral researchers, and early-career faculty who are able to attend the program in-person at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially for those who identify with having limited experiences in computational methods. About 25 participants will be invited. There are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment, however, we are unable to sponsor visas nor offer funds for the institute.

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists, digital humanists, and data scientists across different levels of technical experience. Participants with less experience with social science and digital humantities research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute, and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete the [SICSS boot camp](https://sicss.io/boot_camp).

We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) current/future research and teaching in the area of computational social science 2) current/future contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we attempt to account for an applicant’s career stage and previous opportunities.

## How To Apply

Interested applicants must submit their application via our [Google Form](https://forms.gle/aHMyC81rcpXwsnVZ6). The form will ask you to describe: 

- Why you want to participate in SICSS-CMU
- How participation will aid your current/future research/teaching
- Your experience and/or interest in collaborative projects Carrying out a collaborative research project is a core component of SICSS-CMU.
- A possible topic, method, or question you would like to focus on for a collaborative project

Additionally, the form will also ask you to self-identify your skill level in R. This is for informational purposes and not used to evaluate your application. 

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by February 28, 2025 (Friday).** All application materials must be submitted through this [Google Form](https://forms.gle/aHMyC81rcpXwsnVZ6). Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by March 14, 2025 (Friday), and will ask participants to confirm their participation very soon thereafter.

Inquiries can be sent to [sicss@andrew.cmu.edu](sicss@andrew.cmu.edu)

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-CMU, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-CMU if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

Unfortunately, no. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.
