2023/johannesburg/index.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: johannesburg
main: true
image: /assets/images/jias_johannesburg.jpg

---
From 26 June to 7 July, 2023, the National Science Foundation and the  University of Johannesburg will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science, to be held in hybrid format. The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together postgraduate students, postdoctoral researchers, beginning faculty and researchers outside the academy interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).
The instructional program will involve lectures, group problem sets, and participant-led research projects. There will also be outside speakers who conduct computational social science research in a variety of settings, such as academia, industry, and government. Topics covered include text as data, website scraping, digital field experiments, machine learning, and ethics. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organizers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.
Participation is restricted to registered masters and doctoral students, postdoctoral researchers and researchers working outside of academia. We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. About 15 - 20 participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire two week program.

Commit message:

Updated welcome-page and application-page. Updated organizer bio and images of the university of johannesburg

2023/johannesburg/index.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: johannesburg
main: true
image: /assets/images/johannesburg_campus.jpg

---

From 26 June to 7 July, 2023, the University of Johannesburg and National Science Foundation will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science, to be held in hybrid format. The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together postgraduate students, postdoctoral early career and independent researchers interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).
The instructional program will involve lectures, group problem sets and participant-led research projects. There will also be outside speakers who conduct computational social science research in a variety of settings, particularly within the African contexts. Topics covered include text as data, website scraping, digital field experiments, machine learning and ethics. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organizers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.
Participation is restricted to **registered masters and doctoral students, postdoctoral, early career and independent researchers**. We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. About 15 - 20 participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire two week program.

Application materials are due 11:59pm SAST (GMT+2) on Friday, 31 March, 2023

Follow us on [twitter](https://twitter.com/sicss_jhb) and [instagram](https://www.instagram.com/sicss.johannesburg/).

*The first week takes place online. The second week will combine remote and in-person participation. Limited domestic travel grants are available.*
