2024/iceland/apply.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: tbd
---

# Apply

## Eligibility

Participation is restricted to \_\_\_\_\_. However, there are no restrictions based on citizenship, country of study, or country of employment. About \_\_\_\_\_ participants will be invited.

The Summer Institute aims to bring together computational social scientists across all levels of technical experience. Participants with less experience with social science research will be expected to complete additional readings in advance of the Institute, and participants with less experience coding will be expected to complete a set of online learning modules on the R programming language. Students doing this preparatory work will be supported by a teaching assistant who will hold online office hours during the two months before the Institute.

We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. We evaluate applicants along a number of dimensions: 1) research and teaching in the area of computational social science 2) contributions to public goods, such as creating open source software, curating public datasets, and creating educational opportunities for others 3) likelihood to benefit from participation 4) likelihood to contribute to the educational experience of other participants 5) potential to spread computational social science to new intellectual communities and areas of research. Further, when making our evaluations, we attempt to account for an applicant’s career stage and previous educational opportunities.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit the following documents: \_\_\_\_\_

**In order to be guaranteed full consideration, all application materials must be submitted by \_\_\_\_\_.** All application materials must be submitted through \_\_\_\_\_. Applications that are not complete by the deadline may not receive full consideration. We will notify applicants solely through e-mail by \_\_\_\_\_, and will ask participants to confirm their participation very soon thereafter.

Inquiries can be sent to \_\_\_\_\_.

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-\_\_\_\_\_, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-\_\_\_\_\_ if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.

Commit message:

Iceland goes alive. (#4174)
* Adding Matti Nelimarkka to faculty

* Update time for SICSS Iceland.

* Update Matti Nelimarkka description

* Update schedule.yml

* Update faculty.yml

fixed minor typo

* Add files via upload

* Update teaching_assistants.yml

* Create pre-arrival.md

* Update index.md

* Update pre_arrival.md

* Delete _data/2024/iceland/pre-arrival.md

* Remove pre-activities from the schedule.

* Set partner_site as iceland

* Add pre-activity and rename project week activities

* Update presentation and application instructions.

* Pre materials updated.

---------

Co-authored-by: adelineclarke <112240594+adelineclarke@users.noreply.github.com>

2024/iceland/apply.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: iceand
---

# Apply

## Eligibility

* Participation is open for all, but priority is given to participants for Iceland. However we cannot offer financial aid for travel and accommodation.
* We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science.
* About 30 participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire two-week program as well conduct the pre-arrival tasks.

## How To Apply

Applicants must submit their motivation letter, CV and information here through this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScj1uDNRzwcKEGrTYF-96GzhN_3qRE4ewF7X6GZ_pmb-04sew/viewform?usp=sf_link).
Materials are due June 7th, noon Reykjavik time.

Inquiries can be sent to sicss.iceland@gmail.com.

## Application Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I apply to more than one Summer Institute location?

Yes, but not at the same time. For example, you can apply to SICSS-Iceland, and then if you are not accepted you can apply to one of the other locations if it has a later deadline. However, you cannot have an applications under review at two locations simultaneously.

#### Can I participate in SICSS-Iceland if I have already participated in SICSS at another location?

No. Every year we have more applicants than we can accept, and we would like everyone to have a chance to participate in SICSS once before we allow folks to participate twice.
