2024/iceland/index.md, before:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: tbd
main: true
image: /assets/images/tbd.jpg
---

From June 13 to June 28, 2024, \_\_\_\_\_ will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science, to be held virtually at \_\_\_\_\_. The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and beginning faculty interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).

The instructional program will involve lectures, group problem sets, and participant-led research projects. There will also be outside speakers who conduct computational social science research in a variety of settings, such as academia, industry, and government. Topics covered include text as data, website scraping, digital field experiments, machine learning, and ethics. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organizers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.

Participation is restricted to \_\_\_\_\_. We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. About \_\_\_\_\_ participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire two-week program.

[Application materials](https://compsocialscience.github.io/summer-institute/2024/odissei/apply) are due \_\_\_\_\_.

Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, all events will take place online.

Commit message:

Iceland goes alive. (#4174)
* Adding Matti Nelimarkka to faculty

* Update time for SICSS Iceland.

* Update Matti Nelimarkka description

* Update schedule.yml

* Update faculty.yml

fixed minor typo

* Add files via upload

* Update teaching_assistants.yml

* Create pre-arrival.md

* Update index.md

* Update pre_arrival.md

* Delete _data/2024/iceland/pre-arrival.md

* Remove pre-activities from the schedule.

* Set partner_site as iceland

* Add pre-activity and rename project week activities

* Update presentation and application instructions.

* Pre materials updated.

---------

Co-authored-by: adelineclarke <112240594+adelineclarke@users.noreply.github.com>

2024/iceland/index.md, after:

---
layout: location_detail
partner_site: iceand
main: true
image: /assets/images/tbd.jpg
---

From August 6th to August 16th, University of Iceland will sponsor the Summer Institute in Computational Social Science, to be held at Reykjavik, Iceland. The purpose of the Summer Institute is to bring together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty interested in computational social science. The Summer Institute is for both social scientists (broadly conceived) and data scientists (broadly conceived).

The instructional program will involve group problem sets, and participant-led research projects. Topics covered include machine learning, network analysis and digital experiments as well as ethics, validity and role of theory. There will be ample opportunities for students to discuss their ideas and research with the organisers, other participants, and visiting speakers. Because we are committed to open and reproducible research, all materials created by faculty and students for the Summer Institute will be released open source.

Participants from universities in Iceland are prioritised but we invite participants from other countries as well. However we cannot offer financial aid for travel and accommodation. We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study, especially applicants from groups currently under-represented in computational social science. About 30 participants will be invited, and participants are expected to fully attend and participate in the entire two-week program as well as the pre-arrival tasks.

[Application materials](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScj1uDNRzwcKEGrTYF-96GzhN_3qRE4ewF7X6GZ_pmb-04sew/viewform?usp=sf_link) are due June 7th, noon Reykjavik time.
